Let me ask sort of a critical question of if you're wrong,
about your statements of about Bitcoin,
you find out years from now that you were wrong, what would that look like?
What would be the things that make you realize you are wrong,
likely ideas or crazy out there? Ideas.
Do you think about this kind of stuff all the.
Time.
Because you speak very confidently about Bitcoin and one of the things and you
put it this way. I think certainty,
I feel like that's like a stoic statement, certainty,
least a ruin or something like that. I like certainty, I think,
is in antithesis to progress often
and especially in your writing, but this is true for the Bitcoin community.
There's a S there's a certainty about the Bitcoin.
And that makes me very skeptical, no matter how good the ideas are,
whenever things are good. This might be the Russian in me. I think like,
what are the ways this is going to go wrong? So,
so what do you think are the ways this might go wrong or you're wrong in your
conception of what Bitcoin is? Yes.
So science
evolves via negativa,
meaning that we're not proving hypothesis.
And that's what becomes the body of science.
Science is whatever's left over as we disprove hypothesis, right?
Whatever we can empirically through experimentation
disprove gets discarded and whatever remains, um,
whatever theory remains it hasn't been disproven is science effectively.
Um, this process is similar to market actors,
zeroing in on a store value, right there.
They're experimenting with different forms of, uh,
storing wealth across time. Uh, some do better than others.
And eventually everyone ends up on the one that is best. That's what gold was.
Um, in terms of understanding Bitcoin,
I look at it as a similar approach. And then I'm actually,
that is the main question I'm asking myself is how do you stop this thing?
How do you turn it off? How do you end it? If you're a nation state,
particularly who has the most to lose in this transition,
what is the attack vector by which they neutralize Bitcoin? I mean,
that is the $250 trillion question. And,
you know, I've spent five years thinking about this thing very deeply.
I've read everything on monetary history. I can get my hands on. Um,
the general thought of how it has stopped. And this is,
this is the snag point that a lot of people get to in their explorations down
the rabbit hole is they just say, the government will never allow it.
And that becomes kind of their bottom. It's like, all right,
Bitcoin's interesting. It's superior money, blah, blah, blah.
But the government will never allow it. And this.
Was a Ray Daleo. Did he.
Say that Dahlia was currently stuck there? Yep.
So Ray Dalio said that, uh,
Bitcoin seems to be too promising, uh, if,
if it is in fact as promising as it looks, uh,
governments are going to, uh, I don't forget what the exact quote is,
but not about ban it. Governments will ban it.
So how do you get Ray Daleo unstuck from your perspective?
Well,
and how do you get unstuck from that idea that governments will governments?
How do you prevent governments from stopping a thing that, uh,
threatened centralized power?
Well, Bitcoin is an idea.
So governments that are really good at
fighting centralized threats to their power, right?
Whether that's occurrence account or fitter or competing nation, state,
or business, they don't like, or an individual, they don't like, you know,
they can kill them, they can throw them in jail,
they can use any number of course, of our violent tactics to suppress it.
But how do you point a gun at an idea? How do you,
how do you course an idea? Um,
and that's, you know, there's some,
there is some anecdotal history here where there's the PGP case,
which in the United States, uh,
the court was trying to classify it as munitions when we're shipping this pretty
good privacy software over, uh,
overseas government wanted to classify it as munitions and restrict that
exportation. But,
and this was a circuit court case precedent when, uh,
the PGP attorneys actually printed out the source code on paper and presented it
as evidence in the court.
All of a sudden it became protected under freedom of speech.
And that it's just code his speech code is his language. And,
um, therefore at least in the United States,
it's protected under the first amendment. Um,
I think a government ban would be largely unenforceable
frankly, on Bitcoin. Um, being that it's pure information,
if you suppress market actors from using it in one
jurisdiction, you're just creating incentives for them to go elsewhere. Uh,
and you're actually increasing the incidence for other jurisdictions to be,
be favorable towards it because then they can create,
they get to benefit from the tax revenue and the businesses and the innovation
that's occurring in and around Bitcoin as a result.
So you don't think if a particular central bank like in Europe or
United States bands that not maybe using those terms,
but in some kind of way you think there's a,
that provides a really strong incentive for the other big players too.
Enable it that's right. And that,
they're more likely since governments know this, by the way, too.
The other thing that causes the government to shoot itself in the foot is that
if they ban something, they draw a lot of attention to it. People are smart.
I mean, people ask why, why would a government ban that? Why can't I use this?
So that's kind of typically be the last arrow in their quiver. Um,
they may try to ban it is Bitcoin, you know,
really starts to monetize very quickly. And this,
the power structures that they impose today start to dissolve, uh,
faster than I, you know, others might think they will,
then they might try and ban it.
But I think that ban will be largely unenforceable. Um,
they're more likely to tax it, which they already do tax it. Um,
they're likely to increase taxation of it. Uh, they would,
they're likely to try and make it more white market actually tracing
Bitcoin, seeing who has it attaching identities to Bitcoin ownership,
um, and making sure that they're getting their pound of flush on all the
transactions it results in.
But I don't think the other thing about this is
so we saw the internet out-compete intranets, um,
and that the, we can say that open source networks send out,
compete closed source networks. And there's a really good reason for this as,
because in a closed source network,
there are costs associated with defending the network itself.
So you have to the network owners,
the owners of the closed source network have to expend resources,
protecting it from competitors.
And they have to expend resources imposing its rules because people they're not
voluntarily adopted rules. So you actually have to impose these rule sets,
whereas an open source network,
which is something much more akin to capitalism pure in its pure sense.
These are voluntarily adopted rules.
So all market participants have agreed and consented to this rule set.
So there's no enforcement costs and there's no turf protection because anyone
can freely enter or exit the open network for that energetic reason.
I think open networks, out-compete close networks typically.
And in the digital age, that's why I think open source.
That's why internet out-compete internet.
And that's why open source networks they're going to eat closed source networks.
So what Bitcoin would be in that lens is the ultimate open source monetary
network, devouring closed source central bank, monetary networks.
And I,
I just don't see how there's no possibility of
unilaterally stopping Bitcoin or destroying it.
So then they're more likely to regulate or tax it.
Uh, and again,
the other fallacy here is that a lot of people tend to think of governments as
these singular indivisible, uh,
entities like that is move under one plan. But in reality, it's a lot of people,
right? And a lot of people with loosely,
coupled interests and agendas and whatnot, uh,
regulators and, and, um,
others where they're wearing their citizen hat.
They're going to see this thing monetizing.
They're going to be on the front lines of, um, trying to regulate it,
trying to control it.
And I think what's likely to happen is they're going to start to adopt it,
to buy some of it, uh,
even as an individual or possibly even ultimately as it's at a central bank or
sovereign wealth fund level as an insurance policy against the success.
And once you start to acquire something and then you have a vested economic
interest in its monetization,
I think it kind of dissolves any of the power structures that are raid against
it from the inside. So I've written a lot about this, uh,
in a new series called sovereign ism,
which is based loosely on a book called the sovereign individual.
And that's the general thesis is that microprocessing technology would
devour our organizational models. Uh,
the most important of which is the nation state.
So I think we're going into this world where coercion and violence is just
much less rewarding. Um, it, you can't,
the economics of violence are declining because of the,
the low cost of protecting property, right?
You can now protect your monetary property, uh,
in Bitcoin at orders of magnitude,
less costs than is necessary to run a banking network.
So it changes the way, uh,
it changes the way we organize ourselves. And again,
if we zooming back to gold as kind of the original governor to governments,
or if they manipulated the money, gold would leave their country.
That's why governments have, um,
taken relatively concerted action to go off of the gold standard. Uh,
there's a great book on this called the gold wars, um, that, that outlines,
how governments have been waging, a cold war against gold for the past 50 years,
Bitcoin sort of, uh,
renews hope for that free market governor of governments.
And that is this digital gold that governments cannot stop or co-opt.
So I think it's something that's why I think it's such a big deal is that
it is changing.
It's a new useful fiction. You might say a useful fiction.
That's super ordinant to the mythology of the nation,
state and government as the dominant institution in the world. Why.
You're right. That, uh, all forms of centralized power
started breaking apart naturally. So governments,
the more and more power is given to the individual, whatever the technology is.
And Bitcoin seems to be a promising technology that empowers that enables that
that seems to be the trend. And that's a promising trend from a,
at least from a perspective of somebody who values this particular biological
meat bag. That's full of.
I think Bitcoin is exposing the greatest scam in human history,
which has political authority,
like who gives anyone the right to be politically have political authority over
anyone else.
People should be free to adopt the rules and systems and tools that best suit
their needs. And you know, that heart,
that arc of history we covered earlier, where as
socioeconomic systems have become more favorable towards individual sovereignty,
the more wealthy we have become,
the more we have given the individual we've maximized individual choice, uh,
the more wealth that society has created and the more it is out competed, uh,
the systems that have come before it, the latest would be, you know,
capitalism triumphing over socialism.